All right, so let's turn our attention
now to a non-static inner member class.
So, we need a new class for this.
So, let's create it.
We're still in our
Fundamentals project.
I'm going to call this one
inner, as in the package
name inner.EnclosingClass.
That's obviously created a
package and I’m going to paste
in the code we'll be using.
All right, so this code
consists of a public class.
You can see there, enclosing
class which is similar to the
nest.EnclosingClass we saw in the
previous examples in previous videos.
The only real change is,
I’ve removed all static
members as you can see there.
But in addition, I’ve declared an
inner member class and you can see
that's called InnerMemberClass, which
has got an instance field as you
can see there as well as a method.
And I've got a test class
down here starting on line 39.
At the moment, it's just got a
main method which just creates an
instance of the enclosing class and
invokes the instance method on it.
All right, so if we run this,
the output from this code, which
again is calling a method on the
enclosing class which in turn
invokes a method on the inner
class, so we'll have a look at that.
doSomething on instance.
You can see that's creating a new
instance of InnerMemberClass,
encoding the .getInstanceName method,
which is that one there on line 29.
It's pretty basic and that's the
jump-off point, the examples that
are going to follow this now.
Well, so let's add some more code and
add some more code to the main method.
Paste that in and you can see that
the last statement doesn't compile
because an attempt to instantiate
an object of the type of the
inner member class doesn't work.
This is because you cannot access
an inner member class without
first having a reference to an
instance of the enclosing class.
Now, we have an instance of
the enclosing class assigned
to the local reference e, as
you can see there on line 42.
So, let's try replacing that last
statement with the following.
So, I'm just going to replace that.
You can see that this
doesn't work either.
We're trying to use
the local reference e.
In fact, the way to instantiate
an inner class using an instance
of the enclosing class from a
disassociated class is as follows.
I'm just going to paste in the code.
And you can see that that
compiled, the construct looks
pretty weird if you haven't worked
within the classes very much.
So what have I just done here.
Well, I've created an instance of
the inner class, but it doesn't
and cannot exist independently of
the instance of the enclosing class
represented by the local variable e.
So, I've used a new operator almost
like a method of the enclosing class.
So, let's rework the code a bit
just to confirm this statement.
So, what we're going to do,
we're going to add a constructor
to our inner.EnclosingClass.
So, let's go back and do that.
Up here, so we're going to add a
constructor to our enclosing class as
I mentioned – inner.EnclosingClass,
inner being the package.
So, you can see that in terms of the
constructor, we just pass a value
to the enclosing class instance.
Pretty straightforward.
So, next what we're going to do is
going to add a method but we're going
to add it to the inner member class.
So, we're going to do that down here
and I'll add it down the bottom.
Paste the code in.
So, this code prints the enclosing
classes instance field outer name.
Now, note that this is permitted
from the inner class, which is
not true of a static nested class.
We saw an error when we did that in a
previous video, right so now we've done
that, you want to edit the main method
of the inner.TestingClosingClass.
Specifically, up here, we need
to make a change there because
we've got a compiler error there.
We need to pass some text to the
constructor because obviously, we
added a constructor with one argument.
So, I'm just going to do that.
Pass a string – e’s Instance.
That satisfies the declaration.
All right, so let's add some
code to test what we've done now.
We're going to add this at
the bottom of our main method.
Okay, so that's what
I've just pasted in.
You can see we're using a local
variable referencing the inner member
class to access the method on the
inner class on line 63,
and we're creating another instance of the
enclosing class on line 66, then I'm
declaring and assigning a variable
to the inner member class of the new
instance that we created line 66,
but doing that assignment on line 70
and then we're outputting it.
So, if we run the code now, you
can see the output on screen now.
Well, so if I pin two more lines now
to our main method, you notice what
I’m trying to do there and we've
actually got errors on both lines.
So, what's important here
again looking at e defined
up there on line 52.
So, what's important here on
line 73 and 74 is to remember
that inner member class is a
member of the enclosing class.
However, you can't refer to it
like you would have field on that
class, instead, you must access an
instance of it either through some
reference as I showed above or from
the enclosing class itself, which
we'll demonstrate in the next video.
So, let's end the video here and
I'll see you in the next one.